I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Fandednu, and as part of the Longest
Yarn I'm collecting memories.
So I'm with John today who is going to talk about his mother and his father who are both
the veterans of the Second World War.
So John, over to you.
Do you want to talk about your…
My parents, they were born in the early 20s, so at the time the war broke out, my father
would have just left school, my mother was still at school.
My father went into medical school and spent much of the war in medical school.
He described one incident where a V1 doodle bug landed not far from the hospital he was
working in and he described how he was blown from one end of the corridor right the way
down to the other and then back again as the sort of the vacuum sucked them back in
again.
Both my parents would describe the fear of hearing these things coming over and when
the engine cut out they'd know that it was going to come and fall somewhere and they
just hoped and prayed it wouldn't be there and it wouldn't be where they were.
Mercifully it wasn't.
He qualified, he joined the Royal Army Medical Corps and spent the rest of the war in Palestine
as an army captain, as a medical officer to I forget which regiment and then went back
into civilian life at the end of the war.
My mother, once she'd finished school, enlisted in the Rennes and ended up in the code-breaking
Bletchley Rennes, even though she was one of their outposts in Stanmore in northwest
London, she like many people refused to talk about it for the whole time, the whole 30
years stipulated by the Official Secrets Act and even then I think her father guessed what
she was doing, one or two and she was quite cross about that.
She spent much of her time working on the bombs, operating these decoding devices and
again telling us how Churchill's orders at the end of the war, well they were all dismantled
and so that was my parents' memories of the war.
So tell me, did your mother do anything with the knowledge that she'd got in terms of
working with computers or accounts or anything, did she go back to work?
She went back to work, she went back into hospital work as a radiographer in those days
I think because computers were in there almost pre-infancy, even when I was a student in
the 70s, a computer took up a whole room and it would take two hours to do something you
could do on a pocket calculator in a split second nowadays but that's such was life.
She became a radiographer, never really got her mind around a computer in the whole of
a life though she did become a GP practice manager at one stage once we'd all grown
up and I think she had to learn how to work the office computer.
She was just one of the technicians who sort of fed the stuff into the bombs, pushed the
button.
That was also quite complicated though.
Oh they were, yes.
That wasn't an easy job.
No I don't suppose it was.
She never talked about it, even then never talked about it that much.
When we took her back to Bletchley when they opened it as a museum, the mock-up bomb that
they had was obviously realistic enough because she took one look at it and recognised it
immediately.
This is when she was in her early 90s.
Oh they're lovely memories, thank you so much.
My pleasure.
Thank you for speaking to me, I appreciate it.
Thanks very much.